hi now I've been watching a bit of
what's going on tell me what your
problem is he's fairly obvious so Hector
will not stop calling he pulls so hard
it hurts my arm yeah other than that
he's wonderful his only problem is the
pulling what I'd say is he's obviously
learnt to pull on that on that lead that
flexy leads to the extent that whenever
he's on a lead now he's is completely
used to having the tension on it and
we'll teach him to walk nicely on a
short lead for you so that whenever you
actually want to walk beside you he'll
know what that means that make a nice
change so Hector looks as though you're
pulling at the lead is a thing of the
past now I've got my box of tricks here
it's got all of the sorts of leads and
equipment that people tend to use the
first thing is this now I feel that this
is probably not done Hector any favors
at all he's basically learned that he's
can pull on it whenever he likes and
it's completely ruined all sorts of
other obedience I accept that
with the m11 nearby he's got to be on it
but ideally but get rid of that now
these are head collars we've borrowed
the head collar from the world of horses
and this is the sort of thing that we're
going to use on a dog like Hector to
teach him now you walk to heel okay
sandy let's just introduce him to it
just gently pop it on you can't give
them a treat or something when you're
putting it on good that then this goes
around the back past his ears and just
clips in at the back now dogs aren't
naturally used to these I've got to get
used to it just like they had to a
collar and lead and it would often take
about five days or so for them to get
used to it you wouldn't want to fit this
when you've got him free running on a
flexi lead because he'd be ran really
fast to the end he might hurt himself
but let's get cracking and start
introducing him to it all right and take
some of those with you
okay and hold that one in your right
hand that's it and talk to him that's
good that's much better
good lad right and now we're just going
to do the next stage with some treats to
reassure him Hector seems to take to the
new lead almost immediately he's very
happy look at that tail okay that's it
off you go good lad good boys better
isn't it but we don't want to spoil his
fun when he's off the lead he'll have
plenty of time to investigate smells in
the fields when who's on the lead it's
time to walk to heal sounds fine in
principle but can sandy make it work